With that, thank you all so much for taking the time out of your day to join us today.
And welcome to the Data Science Hangout.
If we have never met before, I'm Rachel Dempsey, I'm the host of our hangout here and I lead
our customer marketing at Posit.
If it's your first time joining, this is our open space to chat about data science leadership,
questions you're facing and getting to hear about what's going on in the world of data
across all different industries.
And so we're here every Thursday at the same time, same place.
So if you're watching this recording on YouTube later, and maybe want to join us live, there'll
be a link below where you can add it to your calendar.
At the hangouts, we're all dedicated to making this a welcoming environment for everyone.
We love to hear from everybody no matter your years of experience, your titles, your industry
or even the languages that you work in.
It's totally okay for you to just listen in here.
Maybe it's during your lunch break or you're out for a walk.
But there's always three ways you can jump in and ask questions or provide your own perspective
on topics too.
So you can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom.
I'll keep an eye out for that.
You can put questions in Zoom chat and just put a little star next to it if it's something
you want me to read out loud instead.
Otherwise, I'll just call on you to jump in the conversation.
And then lastly, we have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously too.
With that, I am so excited to be joined by a few different co-hosts this week.
So we're doing things a little bit differently.
We have three people joining us today from Biogen.
So I'm so happy to be joined by Dan, Danielle and Anuja from the Technology Strategy and
Innovation Group at Biogen.
And I first connected with Dan, I think on LinkedIn, when he reached out about a data
competition they were running.
And so I'm so excited to be able to learn a bit more about that today.
And I thought we could just start with some introductions on your side.
I don't know if Dan, you want to get started, maybe share a little bit about your role and
also something you like to do outside of work.
Oh boy, right on the spot.
Okay.
No, great.
My name is Dan Boisvert.
I work at Biogen, which is a biopharmaceutical company based in Cambridge, but we're worldwide.
I've been at Biogen for 12 years, which makes me sound old.
I do, things change a lot over here and they just recently changed, but I do a lot of technology
strategy.
I do a lot of data strategy.
I really think about our clinical trial data and how we can best leverage that both for
our business, but also just for humanity for us to develop better medicine, for us to understand
disease better.
So that's what I try to do.
Maybe I'll hand it over to Anuja.
Sure.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Anuja Das.
I also work at Biogen, have been there about two and a half years.
Maybe that makes me sound young, I'm not sure.
But I have worked over the past few years on a variety of projects, primarily within
technology.
And I contribute typically from a project management and strategy contribution point
of view, but I've also been able to delve into the technical aspects a little bit.
My favorite part of my job so far is kind of bringing people together who speak different
languages and have a variety of skillsets to work towards the same kind of end target
and solution.
So the data jam was like a large scale embodiment of that, and it was fabulous to see.
So I'm very excited to talk about that today.
And I'm sorry, I just realized I didn't say what I do outside of work, because I just
I live here.
I'm an avid disc golfer.
So I don't know if anyone plays disc golf on the phone, but I'm an avid disc golfer.
And I also like to bake a lot.
All right.
So I, my pandemic hobby was to learn how to knit.
And so I've been trying to do that, like knit myself some sweaters, which is in, I'm in
my grandma mode.
But that's what I like to do outside of work.
I might have to ask you about that, because our book club was thinking about doing that
as an activity.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Danielle, do you want to go next?
Hi, everyone.
I'm Danielle Cloutier.
And I've been at Biogen for almost 11 and a half years.
So I've had many different roles at Biogen.
But my most recent one is decision analytics, specifically portfolio and program modeling
analytics to drive decision making, strategic decision making.
And something I like to do outside of work was I love, obviously love to travel, specifically
eat different foods.
But more recently, I did take up learning how to golf.
Love it.
Are you all, are all three of you in the Boston area?
Yes.
Okay, nice.
Well, I know we kind of alluded to the data jam a little bit.
So I thought it might be helpful in the beginning to just kind of share a little bit about the
story of how that came to be and maybe what the data jam is.
Yeah, Danielle, do you want to give it a shot?
So the whole reason, the whole, so we have a couple of different community of practices
at Biogen.
One of them that Anuj and I lead is the data and analytics and really the whole goal was
just to get people across Biogen that are passionate about data and analytics together,
just to learn sort of the different ways that we work across the different groups, find
areas of opportunity and collaboration as well as network.
And really the way the data jam came about is things have been pretty, has been pretty
interesting at work.
And so we wanted to try to find a way to have a little bit of fun, try to get people together.
I think Anuj had mentioned she loves getting people together, so do I.
So we decided why not try to throw together a data jam and something that we thought would
just be something small and fun, turned out to be something actually very big and really
showed the passion that people at Biogen has for data.
I don't know, Dan and Anuj, if you want to add on to that.
That was pretty good from my perspective.
I mean, I think, you know, anything that's successful, I think always happens, something
like this.
Danielle comes to me, Danielle and Anuj come to me in one meeting and say, hey, I think
we should like do it like a data competition.
Like, all right, sure, let's, let's put that together, let's see what that looks like.
And you know, the day you send it out, like I was hoping, I was hoping myself 30 people
would show up.
I thought if we had 30 people, we'd have like, we'd put like five people on a team, you have
like six teams, you have a good competition with six teams.
I think in the first hour, 50 people signed up and then we just kind of went into panic
mode of how we're going to organize this, which we could also talk about because there's
a lot there.
But really, you know, I think it, it starts on something small.
And then you, we just had such a great team together to be able to put something like
this together.
Just, it really worked out well.
I think a lot of people like have ideas for things like this, or just like ideas in general
that they'll bring to meetings, but you all actually made it happen.
How did you go from just an idea for something to making it this real life event?
And Nuju, you want to take that?
Yeah, I can take that.
I think actually executing to the point of like, send, getting a data set and sending
out a form for signups was fairly straightforward.
We had a couple of ideas of data sets that we could use.
And so we landed on one and then just kind of decided to go for it.
We had enough information to execute and we sent it out.
Where the challenge came in was when we saw the rate of signups because people, we realized
we knew on some level, but we really saw that people love data and are passionate about
it and want to work on a hackathon of sorts or a data jam of sorts.
So I will say that we, it got a little challenging when we hit, you know, 200 to 250 because
our previous kind of plan for how we were going to run it wasn't really going to work
anymore given the numbers.
And so there was a lot of kind of planning on the fly.
So when we saw how many people there were, we kind of decided let's do two rounds instead
of one.
And so it was part of the excitement, but it also was part of the challenge of figuring
out how to accommodate the growing number of participants.
So yeah.
I think part of it too was that we actually had support from our leadership to actually
go forth and do this.
And that helped a lot.
I think part of it too was the fact that there has been a lot of eyes just on data in general
for many different reasons.
So I think that also helped, but a lot of it too was us just trying to figure out how
to even pull it off.
And then we did, to be completely honest.
And you know, I might clarify what Danielle says, because it's not like we were given
a task to go run a data jam.
Like at some point we just had to make a decision.
Like Rachel says, there are ideas all the time, right?
How do you like do it?
There's a little bit of a leap of faith there.
I think you just kind of, you know, what's the worst that can happen is no one signs
up and we just go back to our day jobs.
What's the best thing that can happen is, you know, a whole bunch of people sign up.
So there is like just a little bit of boldness from this team to be able to say, all right,
let's do it.
Let's give it a shot and see what happens.
I think a lot of it too is we just asked, like it was like, there's no, there's no downside
they could, you know, expect, you know?
And so I think a lot of it was just, we just asked and it seemed like we were able to get
a lot of things, a lot of yeses actually.
That's great.
I've, I've been thinking about doing something kind of like that at Posit so that we could
like mix people across all different teams, like customer success and some of the open
source package developers that kind of work on a common problem together.
And it's just been like an idea floating around in my head.
So I was just curious how you went and, and made it actually happen.
But I was wondering for the teams, were people like mixed across different parts of the company
or could people be, it could be a group of whoever wanted to join together.
We decided to randomize it.
And so we had people sign up and part of the signup was asking what their kind of capabilities
were.
So is it that they've never really coded before?
Are they like experts or gurus?
Do they fall somewhere in the middle?
So we, we kind of defined four different levels of competency and had people describe or kind
of self identify within one of those four.
And then what we tried to do is when we did randomize teams, we tried to kind of spread
the capabilities out.
Honestly, most people fell in the middle, but we didn't want to put all the experts
together, but also didn't want to have a team that was all novices.
And so we, the data jam, of course it was about data, but another kind of primary element
was for people to meet each other.
And so we didn't want people to just stay within their teams.
So this was an opportunity to network outside as well.
Yeah.
It was kind of wild.
The teams, because we don't know any of the people, you know, but Biogen's a big company,
but the teams end up kind of wild, you know, multiple time zones, people in like Buenos
Aires and China and Switzerland and US and you know, they gave them like three weeks
to go analyze some data.
They don't know each other.
They're working wildly different departments, you know, some in manufacturing, some in sales,
you know, some in R&D.
So like you're saying, Rachel, a big part is getting those people, force them into something.
And I feel like you get a lot of benefit when people are forced to problem solve together
because that like, it creates like a little bit of, I don't know, a little bit of conflict.
And when you get that conflict, then you get people's different opinions coming out and
the different viewpoints, then you build on something together.
So I think that part was really wildly successful and people had a good time meeting people
across the org.
Thank you.
Alan, I see you asked a question in the chat here.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, sure.
Hey, everybody.
Um, I think Dan was kind of just speaking to part of the question, noting that folks
had sort of several weeks to put something together and they were kind of all over the
place.
I'd really like to know more about like, what did they, what did they make?
Like, and how much structure did you give them to lead into that?
Like, was this a, an internal and external data set?
And did you give them a bunch of specific problems or did you say, Hey, here's a pile
of data, like find something fun and interesting and make something.
And I'm just curious about the array of things that they made and what the, like sharing
with a great big set of like 200 people sharing that back out at scale is also really challenging.
So, you know, how did that, um, how did the sort of conducting of the rest of the thing
kind of unfold?
Um, there's a whole bunch there.
I think Dan's number is kind of interesting to speak to.
Um, I'd love to hear about, thanks.
Maybe Danielle.
Yeah.
So we actually, um, so we started with an internal data set.
It was a survey that was done a few years ago, specifically around, um, data maturity
at Biogen.
Um, and so we had a data set, um, that was kind of easy, somewhat easy to use and understand.
Um, and then the way we set it up was we gave the teams, um, a few weeks to, uh, analyze
the data set in whatever fashion or whatever type of tool they wanted to use.
Um, and the idea was to generate insights.
Um, there were a few key questions that we had asked, but other than that, it was pretty
much open.
Um, and then present it not in PowerPoint.
So the challenge here was to not use PowerPoint and to be creative.
Um, and so what we did was we had a few rounds of, um, uh, sort of battle rounds, like kind
of posed it as like a Eurovision, the voice type of, you know, head to head, knockout
battle rounds where we had groups of, I think it was five or six teams.
Um, and then they would vote for the one team to move forward to the finale.
So at the end we had, uh, I think 22 teams down to five teams, the five teams, yeah.
Four or five, you know, I know it's kind of a blurred out, but we had it down to five
teams.
Um, after that we had like the big finale where it was, um, something that we did in
our, one of our auditoriums and we had all the teams come present.
We were actually able to get our executive, some executive committee members to come and
do some openings and some closing.
And we had got our CEO there.
It was a really big event where, um, we then had people present in a shark, uh, tank style
pitch about, uh, the data sets and, um, sort of what they would recommend to, um, better,
um, to have better data stewardship, um, and different types of strategies with data
at Biogen.
And then we crowned a winner at the end, we had some trophies and medals.
I love how you're mixing all these reality shows, like The Voice and Shark Tank.
And I, um, I see Jesse asked a question in the chat and I see a star there, so I'll read
it.
But the question was, um, did the competition happen during work hours?
And if so, how did you pitch the idea to leadership to get them on board?
I know you just mentioned like the CEO was there for the beginning of the competition.
Um, what did you appeal to in order to get them to buy into the idea?
Yes.
Um, we didn't ask.
Um, you know, we, uh, we threw it out there.
We threw it out there and said, you know, I saw another question about, did we start
with a problem and have people solve the problem?
We just threw a data set out there and said, look, find some insights.
We left it really broad.
People came back and said, well, how much time should I spend on this?
And of course, data scientists could go nuts on something like this.
So we've tried to like, you know, look, you only have three total weeks to work on this
thing.
Um, and you have a big, broad team and everything.
So, uh, for, for the question that was just posed, we didn't ask leadership.
We asked people to volunteer, um, and, you know, just kind of try to keep it manageable.
I think, I forget what we said, total number of hours over the three weeks, maybe around
like eight.
I think we said it was up to their discretion.
It's up to their discretion.
Some did a lot, but some did not so much.
I think part of it too was, I mean, there was support for this.
I think, you know, we've been going through a lot of changes and again, there was a lot
of focus on data.
So part of this too was a culture piece.
And I think the recognition that this is a vital part of, you know, working at a company
is the, the culture and the experience.
So I think a lot of that, um, also allowed for this to happen and not really need permission
per se.
I see Ted commented about the data governance piece being so important and maybe this chips
a little bit away from the data jam, but like, what are some things you've learned about
data governance through this or before?
Yeah, this is a good one.
I can take this.
Um, you know, my, my role here is around data stewardship.
I mean, people talk about data governance, but personally, everyone hates data governance
across the board, executives, everyone, but so I rebranded it into data stewardship, which
I think evokes a little bit more of we're all in this together and we do our own stewardship
of the, of the information.
So what we, what we ask people to do, and I'm going to get it wrong, what we asked,
but we asked for like an insight and we asked for a data stewardship recommendation and we
asked for one other thing, but I forget what that was now.
But you know, we got a lot of stuff and then the, the survey itself was about how well
does Biogen steward data and how well do we leverage data?
So all of the questions in the survey were about this and then the topic was about this
too.
Um, you know, so like what we heard was probably not surprising to a lot of people, but data
is hard to find.
It's hard to get access to data.
And then we had a lot of great recommendations on how we could improve that.
Manuja, did I miss anything?
I know you, you covered it pretty well, but I think in addition to that, the fact that
I would say 80 to 90% of the teams, which were incredibly cross-functional came to the
same conclusion, which was that data is hard to find and access.
And so it's not a problem that's kind of isolated to a single group.
It's pretty, pretty functional, cross-functional, which I thought was fascinating.
It was expected, but it was still like very interesting to actually see it.
I think part of it too generated a lot of ideas on how to make it better.
And so that was some of the pitches had sort of geared their, their thoughts and their
pitch around.
Okay.
Yeah, this is what it is, but these are some of the ways that we could work to, to improve
it.
I'd love to hear some of those ways to improve it.
Cause I'm sure a lot of us are facing, facing that too, if that's something you can share.
I know there was a lot around kind of metadata driven cataloging, ensuring that, you know,
your data isn't all over the place.
There was a lot of conversation about the fact that, you know, copying data is something
that happens on occasion is, and is obviously not best practice.
So I think the big ones that we saw were essentially a catalog to understand what data even exists.
So that, you know, we know what's there and then find a way for people who need to access
it to be able to access it.
So that was a, that was a big one that we saw.
And the other piece really was actually having the enterprise wide strategy.
I think that was one of the key things that was, you know, identified was just needing
some sort of consistent across enterprise and not just specific to each of the different
individual functions.
I'm trying to think back to, this was in May.
So it was a little bit ago, but one of the ones that resonated with me was, you know,
not to kind of create like a partial catalog or something like that, where as soon as you
create it, it's out of date and then end up being another stale data asset that you
have.
So really trying to weigh, like Danielle was saying, to enterprise it or productionalize
it and then find ways to make sure that it's, it's sustainable long-term, because I feel
like that's where we, where we always end up with a hiccup of like, how do we, we could
get it going, but then how do we actually keep it going?
Is that your team that's responsible for enterprise data strategy, or I'm trying to
remember the name of the group, technology strategy and innovation, or is that another
company?
No, mine's like, the piece that I'm in charge of is the clinical trial data.
But so obviously at Biogen, there's more data than that, but the enterprise, it's kind of
just across all the individual functions, they do probably similar to what it looks
like at Posit, probably similar to what it looks like at everyone else's company.
Yeah.
There was an anonymous question that was from a technology perspective, how did teams interact
on the data jam?
Did they use common tools?
There was a variety, and I think it, the randomization of teams kind of spoke to what tools ended
up being used.
So for instance, I, we obviously didn't interact with every single team, but what ended up
happening was there was a kind of data communication person, a person in charge of creating the
output, a person who was more of the programmer, and then the person who was kind of describing
what the approach would be to actually solving the problem.
So it really depended on what programming tools that people within that specific team
were most comfortable with, which kind of made it more exciting because we had people
working in R, people working in SAS, people working in Power BI, amongst others.
And so folks did rely a lot on what we had in-house just because it's kind of, you know,
sensitive data.
So we didn't want to kind of put it on external tools, but there was still quite a variety
of what was used to produce the end results and the solutions.
Thank you.
George, I see you had a question in the chat just now, but maybe also one from earlier.
So feel free to ask both there.
Thanks.
Yeah, I was wondering if you've obtained any feedback from the participants on, you know,
the different aspects, like the technology side, what it's like, especially, you know,
they may not really interact with a lot because, you know, cross-functional.
Neutra, Danielle, do you want to take that?
Yeah, so we did actually do a post-event survey.
So a lot of it was just understanding, you know, thoughts and feedback on the format.
Would they participate in something like this again?
I think at the end of the day, there was a lot of really positive feedback on the actual
data jam and wanting to do it again.
And there are just obviously some logistical things that we had to deal with that we could
always make better for next time.
I think one of the challenges was the different geographic location.
I think that was tough trying to find, you know, teams that were kind of spread across
when they could actually meet because of the different time zones.
So there are a lot of things that we have sort of on our list to think about for Data
Jam 2.0.
But at the end, we did get a lot of positive feedback and a lot of good ideas for the next
one.
And Anuja, Dan, anything to add?
No, I don't.
I actually don't think we got too much feedback in the way of the usage of tools.
The technology piece actually, it seemed to work pretty well, depending on what people
wanted to use.
To Danielle's point, it was more logistics.
And then there was also feedback around the type of data set that we could potentially
use for upcoming data jams.
So for instance, for this one, we did surveys and some people love analyzing survey data.
Some people despise it.
So there was some feedback there around, you know, what else can we do moving forward
and what data sets could we use?
I think that was another good point.
A lot of people had offered like, hey, we're going to do this again.
Can you please use our data?
So that was pretty cool, too.
Yeah, that's exciting, getting people thinking about, hey, I want to use my data for this.
I see that there are a few questions in the chat here, too.
I think, Kevin, you asked one about different formats that people use.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah, I like that idea of forcing them not to use PowerPoint because I definitely find
PowerPoint presentations.
I definitely learn less from PowerPoint presentations than any other format, I think, that exists.
But I'm curious, like, what other formats people ended up using, you know, instead of
PowerPoint.
Some people use the Power BI dashboards directly and went through that.
Others use some forms of, like, Canva or animations.
There was one really cool group that did sort of these animations to tell their story.
Anything?
I know, so a lot of Power BI, Canva, animations.
There were a couple of shiny applications.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
So when you put this question out there, you never know what you're going to get, right?
You have to come back.
It has to be a presentation under five minutes, I think.
Yeah.
Five minutes.
It has to explain, like, these three things.
So what are we going to get?
Kind of unbelievable.
I mean, we had people, like, dressing up in costumes.
We had, like, we had people do, like, a set of, like, trivia questions.
Oh, I like the Kahoot.
And then we definitely had some animation, like, to tell the whole story.
People walking through the Power BI dashboard, people walking through shiny apps, stuff like
that.
But, you know, some really interesting stuff.
And I think people had fun with it, even if they didn't have, like, a big, you know, epiphany
of data science in this.
But they were just able to present something, because we know that you need a lot of skills
for data science, right?
And so part of the storytelling and everything is part of it, too, getting the message across.
Which formats do you think were most effective?
I would say the funnier, the better, personally, for this one.
But I think it really depends on what you're, what message you're trying to convey.
I mean, if you're really, I think we have some people who did some really deep statistical
analyses, and they had shiny apps up, and I think that was really helpful to do that
stuff.
But for, like, the big, broad 300-person audience, I think you want to go big and go creative.
Yeah, I think when we think about the finale, there were a lot of, there were a few that
were Power BI, but they didn't just do Power BI.
They had sort of some animations, or the way they had presented it was a little bit on
the more creative side.
Yeah, I like this idea of, like, just making it accessible to whatever tools people wanted
to use, like, if they wanted to present it in Canva, which is a tool I love for doing
design, too, that they could use whatever they wanted.
Yeah, and I feel like, oh, sorry, Dan, I was just going to say, it was less about the output,
like one type of output being more effective than the other, but more so about how you
communicated what you were trying to get at, how you communicated your story.
So I feel like I saw effective presentations across all formats.
And I was just going to say, we're trying to make it as inclusive as possible.
So it's not, you know, only for PhD statisticians, of which we have a lot here.
It's like, really, you know, it could be a novice, have no idea anything about data,
but you'd be maybe more creative for the presentation side, and you could, like, hear
from them. So, you know, a lot of, like, cross-pollination with different people and
really keeping it open, use whatever you want, do whatever you want.
Yeah, and I think the teams also really leveraged the skill sets and the strengths of
each member on their team. So some of the people were more heavy in the background, and
some of the other people were more front and center in terms of presentation.
So I think a lot of teams use that to their advantage as well.
That's really cool. Thanks for sharing that.
George, you'd like a follow up on that kind of?
Yeah, actually, I was wondering, you know, if any of those creative formats have become
normalized in the culture, you know, because that's, it seems like such a variety.
I mean, I don't expect someone to just, like, constantly, you know, dance, do an
interpretive dance to their presentations, but something along the lines of, you know, a
little bit more creativity and going beyond the PowerPoint.
Does any of those, have any of those become like a mainstay?
I mean, speaking personally, now, when I try to do something, I think about what can I use
other than PowerPoint? I don't know if that's necessarily across the board, but it's
definitely something that I keep in mind anytime I'm trying to present some sort of
visualization or insights is just trying to be a little bit more creative.
Yeah, I think we definitely got some feedback saying, oh, I'm going to read, I have to
rethink about how I've been presenting in analytics results.
And our CEO is definitely anti PowerPoint, too.
So, you know, he likes the idea of information being communicated in some other way that's
more like other people are saying here, it's more accessible, more easier to to interpret.
I'm feeling bad for PowerPoint right now.
Some PowerPoints are beautiful, too.
I see, Alan, you had a question a little bit earlier.
Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah, sure. I was curious if there were insights or things in particular that you
were curious if there were insights or things in particular from what people produce that
could be pulled back by the like the owners of the data to turn into anything that becomes
programmatic or insights that they can then act on like that obviously would be a great
outcome. Like, hey, we get 100, 200 people together and it's a great engaging activity.
And it's super cool if the team that owns that data could say, hey, you found a bunch
of stuff for you. You started some ideas that we can capitalize on and take forward.
Were they able to take anything like that away?
We'll let you, Dan, speak about it.
So I think a lot of data jams go with this idea of like, here's this data set or maybe
like Kaggles like this, right? Here's this data set.
Figure out this thing for me.
And ours wasn't exactly like that.
So we didn't know exactly what might come out of it.
But I can tell you what came out of it, at least from my perspective.
I know a lot of people reached out to some of the people who were either Shiny developers
or Power BI to get consults on how to do stuff.
Our CEO reached out to us and asked, how do we fix this whole data problem that we have
at Biogen that he just heard for two hours during the data jam?
And I had one more, but then I lost it.
Oh, and one of the metadata catalogs that someone recommended, they called it DASH.
I forget what it stands for.
But it was like an idea of just a metadata catalog.
And that's being taken up by our computational biology in research.
And they're going to try to push that forward next year.
Maybe this isn't something you can necessarily put a number around, but have you seen that
have you seen that people are working better cross-functionally because of the data jam?
Biogen is a big company.
I think we have about 7,000 employees worldwide.
So I don't know that we can really get a pure KPI on that one.
But I think you definitely hear of some interactions that never would have taken place before.
And I think we run these two community of practices, which I think are kind of like this,
where you get people who are passionate about something together.
You have them talk about different topics.
We have one around data stewardship that I run and one about
Biogen analytics and data community of practice, which they call BADCOP,
which Danielle and Anuja run.
But we've definitely had more people volunteer for leadership in there.
And we're getting their voices in to continue this conversation.
I mean, I can say, too, that I've gotten a lot of feedback on,
oh, thank you so much for having this.
I was able to connect with this person.
And I was able to solve whatever issue or whatever problem where I was able to get
extra help on this.
So there has been a lot of connections made that then help somebody in their
current role or responsibility.
That's great.
OK, Kevin, with the hard question in the chat, do you want to jump in here, Kevin?
So your CEO asked you, how do you fix the whole data problem?
I'm just curious, what did you say or what are you planning on getting back to him with
an answer for that question?
That's a big question.
It was a big question.
And we were kind of like, oh, OK, yeah, we'll come back to you.
We thought about it for a long time.
And I think we've seen, I'm sure you've seen, I'm not sure what organization you're in,
but like a lot of these initiatives come and go and a lot of hype about, you know,
fix the world through data or fix the entire business through data.
So we talked about this a lot, Danielle, Anuja, myself, Sam.
And the idea, everyone wants the answer to this.
OK, well, the answer is it's complicated.
But I think the answer that we really need to do is where do we want to be as an organization
with data?
And we need to start from there and then, you know, go down through like exactly like
how do we want to improve our business and then try to connect our data scientists, our
data innovators into those real business decisions or business questions that are there.
So that's my five-minute Shark Tank pitch on what you need to do.
You need to align the business so you get them to state their position on data.
Because otherwise, people like us, we always just like we do our initiatives, we try to
do our things, and it all hits some glass ceiling at some point, which we're all too
familiar with.
Danielle, Anuja?
I was going to say, I think, you know, one of the things that we had recommended, and
so we had worked on putting sort of this proposal together, which is very, you know, inclusive
of what Dan was talking about.
But I think the first thing was really just actually having an enterprise-wide data strategy
goal.
And it's, you know, something on as a goal for our metrics to at least have some traction
against at that enterprise-wide level.
One of the anonymous questions from a little bit earlier was, what did you think about
the like follow through?
Are you collecting and resharing people's sharings?
Is there follow through to hold another event?
We did a couple of things at the end to essentially make people's solutions accessible to all
of Biogen.
So just for some context, the finale following all the battle rounds was open invite to everyone.
And so we had a number of people join from various different departments who weren't
necessarily participating in the data jam.
And so one thing we did was collect links to everyone's Power BI's and dashboards and
shiny applications and kind of final findings and put them in an accessible location for
everyone to view and see.
Because again, because it was a five minute shark tank pitch, we couldn't necessarily
delve into the details.
And so this gave people the opportunity to look into how people did the analysis and
what the more detailed findings were.
So that's one thing that we did.
We would love to hold another data jam because this one has been so successful.
We haven't necessarily planned for one yet, but we're, I think, still hoping to do one.
I mean, what has happened?
Yeah.
What has happened is I think Danielle mentioned earlier is people have been coming to with
us, coming to us with the data sets that have the potential to spin off another data jam.
And so we're kind of playing with the idea of potentially doing one that's a little more
maybe hardcore data science for specifically folks who want to dive into the more intense
data science techniques on a specific data set.
And so instead of doing a big data jam like we did before, maybe in the interim, we do
a mini data jam of sorts.
And so there have been several opportunities to kick something off.
We just have to kind of get together and decide what that looks like.
And I think, you know, again, I mentioned our community of practices earlier, so that's
another avenue that we try to sort of keep this going, the conversation going through.
We've talked a lot about in these data science Hangouts about data storytelling and communication
and sometimes like relying that back to having to do your own marketing.
And I was wondering if you had any marketing lessons learned throughout this process too.
Although it sounds like you're very successful, you got way more people to sign up than we
thought we were going to.
No, the marketing is key.
So Sam, who's not here today, but she's our marketing expert.
And I do think marketing makes a big, big difference.
You know, I think when we sent out, well, we called it a data jam.
It sounds kind of fun.
We had a lot of like fun things, like we had like a logo with like a piece of jam on it,
you know, toast with like jam on it.
I know it is my jam is the theme.
I know when we had the finale, the music was jamming by Bob Marley.
We're coming in, people were walking in.
And I think when we sent it out, I know we had like a one page flyer to describe this.
It had very little detail, you know, it said like, you know, work with your colleagues.
And we really try to say what's in it for them.
What did they get out of it?
Instead of like what are really explaining what we're doing, we're just kind of saying,
you know, what's in there for you.
Get to meet your colleagues, get to work on something interesting.
Oh, don't forget the seven C's of jamming.
Yeah, I don't remember the seven C's.
Collaboration.
Creativity, collaboration.
There's a bunch of C's and the last one we just jokingly called for the seventh C fun.
We couldn't come up with a seventh one.
But yeah, I think it was fun for our team too.
Because like all of us, all four of us love data and love getting people together.
So we got really kind of creative and crazy with the way that we were pitching it too.
And so yeah, the logo, for instance, we did a couple of stickers.
We had kind of swag set up in the office as much as we could and tried to make it make it fun.
I really like listening to the way that the three of you all like play off each other
and like answer these questions and go back and forth.
It just sounds like you did such an amazing job with this event,
like thinking of all the different parts that make it what it is.
And I hope that you got the got the recognition internally for this event
and going like above and beyond to do that.
And was just curious to learn a little bit more about what that maybe looked like.
I mean, I think for one thing is our CEO joined
and he was only planning to join for 20 minutes.
He ended up staying the full two hours.
So that was really great.
And I think, again, there's a lot of positive feedback afterwards.
And people are looking forward to another one.
So I think that's the best recognition right there.
Yeah.
And I will say for kind of the four of us,
we kind of organically worked really well together,
which I don't know how that happened, but I'm glad that it did.
We each took on the roles that came most naturally to us.
So, for instance, Sam, she loves putting together graphics and she did marketing.
And then, you know, someone else would take on the networking piece.
Someone else would take on the logistics piece.
And so we each just knew what our role was within the grand scheme of things.
And that kind of helped us to work really well together from the start.
So not a lot of conflict in the internal team, which is always good.
I mean, we were joking if we were like an actual team
about all the awesome things we could get done.
So we went heavy on the data jam today and diving into all parts of that.
But I'm curious to learn a little bit more about
some of the other things that you're working on as well.
And like the everyday kind of business problems that you're solving too.
Oh, boy.
Okay.
That sounded like a heavy sight.
You don't have to answer that.
It's fine.
It's complicated.
A big one that my team is working on is reuse of clinical trial data.
So clinical trial data is personal information, obviously.
But it's like protected personal information.
It's very, very valuable, right?
I mean, we know, you know, we study diseases that don't have cures.
We study diseases that don't have medicines.
We're trying to find better ways to treat the disease,
trying to find better ways to measure the disease.
And that's all, you know, held together in this clinical trial data that we run.
So a big thing that I'm working on right now is how do we best leverage this?
It is immensely complicated.
There's many privacy regulations, many GCP, good clinical practice.
Regulations around this.
But I have this feeling that we need to find a way to use the data up to its maximum potential
or maximum allowability and no further.
But if we don't, if we just say, hey, it's complicated.
I'm not touching that.
I feel like we're like losing a big piece of medicinal development.
So that's a big piece that I'm working on.
I know Nuja is helping me on that.
See what they have to say, what they're working on.
I'm sure it's different.
So for me, you want to go?
No, go for it, Danielle.
So for me specifically, a lot of what I do is really focused on understanding sort of
the business risk for some of our portfolio and programs.
So really understanding.
So what our portfolio looks like, what are the decisions that we're trying to make to
whether we progress programs or we terminate programs.
So a lot of it has to do with really modeling and understanding our current portfolio,
the different decision points, the investment points.
What's the risk?
What's the value?
And ultimately coming up with insights for leadership to then decide leadership and our
governance, then decide what we what our portfolio should look like.
What are the programs?
What are the things that we invest in?
But again, a lot of this is balancing the business risk with a scientific risk.
So lots of different like I'm focused a lot more on the operational data
more than anything.
But a lot of it is, you know, balancing out those different risks and
really helping decision makers understand what what the options are.
So I've been lucky enough to kind of work with several different
folks within analytics and data sciences.
So I am helping Dan with part of his secondary use project.
But I think my biggest project is around automation for our end to end clinical
reporting and analytics space.
And so I help to manage, but also contribute to the strategy of understanding, you know,
what can be automated and also what should be automated, because there is a lot that
can be automated, but we want to make sure that, you know, the resourcing that we put
into it is worth the impact that it will eventually drive.
And so part of that is, you know, playing with the fact that, you know, people work
in SAS, but how do we bring in additional languages?
How do we bring in more additional analytics techniques?
When is it worth doing that?
And what is the best way logistically to also bring that in?
So it started off as like a smaller scope of work, but it's kind of ballooned out to
be this, you know, massive initiative that has been very fun to work on.
So thank you all for sharing.
Really interesting.
I wanted to remind everybody with 10 minutes left here that if I missed any questions from
anybody in the chat among conversation, feel free to just repost it there or raise your
hand here too.
But I know Bill loves this question and we have to ask it too, but was there any application
of AI or chat GPT or large language models in this?
Oh, I can take that.
So we got a lot of questions of, can I take this data and copy and paste it into chat
GPT?
Which the answer is no, just FYI.
If you work at a big company, that answer is no, but we have an internal instance of
chat GPT that's secure.
And people did use that.
We had comments.
So I think, I forget how many people took the survey, 300 something.
And people wrote comments in there.
And so people were doing like sentiment analysis of the comments and trying to pick out some
insights that were in the comments, which was fun.
Thank you.
Anusha, I really like that point you just brought up about, like, we talk about automation
a lot, but when is it worth going through the process of doing the automation and using
resources to do that?
And I'm curious, like, how do you figure that out?
I mean, that's tough, right?
Because you have an initial estimate of, yeah, I'll be able to develop the macros or the
scripts needed to be able to automate this the next amount of time.
But then there's other pieces that we need to factor in around, you know, how long is
it going to take to adopt?
How long is it going to take to scale?
And then there's a learning curve associated with it as well.
So it is, that's something we've been, as more people become aware of the automation
initiative, it's automatically leading to more ideas flowing in.
And so we're really having to put a structure in place to try and gauge from the very beginning
how much resourcing is going to be used in order to make this.
And so I know that doesn't really answer your question, but that's because, you know, it's
tough to gauge right from the very beginning how much resourcing is going to be put in.
But we do try to account for both, you know, development in addition to change management,
in addition to adoption and set kind of tangible and achievable targets intermittently.
Yeah, I was going to say, cue up the XKCD, but I see someone already put it in there.
I saw someone put that in chat, and I was like, it's got to be the one that I think
it is.
That's a good one for us to all take down.
I remember that one, and I didn't know where to find it.
Nessa, I see you had a follow-up question from the previous question.
You want to jump in here?
Yeah, I just wanted to ask about the internal instance of chat GPT you're dealing with,
because, well, I've been talking to a bunch of other companies I'm really interested in
how people are doing this.
Is it a web chat tool with a GUI?
Like, most people access chat GPT in the real world, or is it all API based?
And also, is it accessible to people who are not data scientists?
Like, can a chemist access this really easily?
I don't know much about it.
I feel like when I saw it, it was command line, so I would not call that a GUI.
But I think it's like a private Azure instance of the GPT.
But I don't know too much.
But no, I don't think we don't have like a chat GPT for Biogen, where it's like
friendly user interface and ask it any question.
We don't have that yet.
Yeah, thank you all for the great questions.
Alan, you had a follow up question around more of the broader community events.
Want to jump in?
Yeah, I'm just curious if there are other kind of things that connect
into like a single sort of community of practice for folks who participated in the jam,
but also more broadly, do you have other events?
Is there other kind of conscientious organizing going on?
Just curious what that looks like to kind of keep these folks
seeing one another and potentially connecting, you know, beyond that event.
Yeah, I can speak for the community of practice that we run.
So we try to have forums.
But we're trying to have it, you know, at least every other month.
And so there's a series that we have called data bites.
And basically, what it is, is either bringing somebody from it or somebody from the community
to talk about the work that they're doing.
And or more recently, we had one that was actually somebody that participated in data jam
and wanted to leverage the data jam network to look at their data and help generate insights.
And I know we've also talked about doing some more collective
meetings across the different communities.
So kind of gathering all the different communities together
on a more regular basis, did bring a lot of those communities together.
And so there are definitely plans to start to continue that.
It's been a little bit hectic at Biogen lately.
So we haven't been able to do as much as we wanted to.
But I think now that things are somewhat settling,
we are definitely looking at sort of the next few key events.
Well, thanks.
I hope those are successful.
Sounds like a good, a really good foundation.
Bill, I see you had a question around their environment.
You want to jump in?
And the question was around different cloud providers.
Are you heavy into Azure or AWS one over the other?
Or do you have mostly on-prem, data versus cloud?
And as always, no worries if these are certain questions that you can't answer too.
I'm pretty sure I have a little bit of everything.
That's a good answer.
So we'll check here to see if there were any questions that we missed.
But something I was curious about when you were talking about the different community events
and people who maybe are new to data science as well,
what does the training look like for your team?
So if somebody maybe, I guess there's two factors here,
like onboarding for someone who comes in with data science experience or analytics experience
versus also somebody who maybe hadn't used data and science before, but wants to.
Maybe Danielle?
A lot of it really is on-the-job training.
So it's really just once you, you know, working with the team, working with your manager.
But at the same time too, I know for some of what we hire for it,
we try to sort of be a little bit diverse.
So a lot of times there are some technical aspects that we are looking for.
But a lot of the times for anything really data related in my world,
I look for people that are just genuinely curious and want to solve problems.
So I feel like as long as you have those two skills and that you're willing to learn,
that's pretty much how we get things done.
I don't know, Dan, in your space, if it's any different,
but that's at least how I sort of handle things over here.
Yeah, I think in the data science groups, we hire a lot of more senior people.
There's not like a lot of entry-level roles there.
But I think maybe you're also hinting at like a, although I hate the word,
a data literacy kind of effort of how do you,
how does every single person in the entire organization know not to present a pie chart?
You know, and stuff like that.
And that's something that we need to look at.
And I think these community of practices that we have
are the best way that we can really do it.
It's organic.
It's leaning on people already wanting to learn
and then like kind of helping them get up to the next level
with what they already want to learn.
I know kind of speaking to the communities of practice,
but there are some like ours are a little more general,
but there are specialized ones.
So there's a machine learning group that dives into that a little bit more.
And we're about to start a data science conference,
which will bring in kind of speakers and such for people to learn a little bit more there.
Thank you so much.
I feel like I just have to say this because Biogen's in Boston,
but I run the Boston News Hour group with my co-host Kevin.
And if anybody from the team would be interested in joining us,
I just shared the link to our event in the chat.
But we have a series of lightning talks coming up
and it'd be cool to do some events with some others from Biogen too.
Let me double check here on any questions we missed.
If anybody in the last minute here wants to raise your hand.
Feel free.
Well, thank you all so much for joining us.
It's really awesome to hear how well the data jam went
and how many people were interested in the event too.
There's been a number of people who've reached out to me
around holding their own sort of data competitions.
And I'm so excited to be able to share this as a resource with them too.
Thank you so much for having us.
This was fun.
Thanks Rachel.
This is great.
You know, if anyone has any questions,
please feel free to reach out.
You can find us through this or on LinkedIn for sure.
Wonderful.
Thank you all so much.
Have a great rest of the day.
Thank you.
Thanks.